+++
title = 'API hacking'
date = 2023-11-02T14:51:44+11:00
draft = false
+++

I'll be going through everything about APIs, what API hacking is and how to do it ethically and what the vulnerabilities are.

## API overview (What are APIs??)
API, or Application Programming Interface, is a set of protocols and tools that enable different software applications to communicate with each other. It defines the methods and data formats applications can use to request and exchange information. In a security context, understanding API is crucial to protect systems from unauthorized access and exploitation.

### API use cases in modern application

#### Web Applications
APIs allow third-party developers to access specific functionality within a web application, enabling the integration of various services and data.

#### Software Development
Developers use APIs to request information from a web application, often through REST APIs, to access or manipulate data and functionality.

#### Banking and Financial Institutions
APIs are employed to enable customers to link their accounts with third-party applications, facilitating access to financial data securely.

#### Streaming Service Providers
Streaming services often use APIs to deliver content and services to users while maintaining security and access control.

### What makes API important
APIs offer several key benefits:
- **Data Access** : Developers can access data and functionality from other applications, making it easier to create rich, integrated services.
- **Interoperability**: APIs allow applications to interact with each other, fostering a cohesive digital ecosystem.
- **Innovation**: They enable developers to create new and innovative applications by building on top of existing ones.
- **Efficiency**: Developers can create more reliable and efficient applications by leveraging APIs, saving time and resources.
- **Scalability**: APIs make it easier to scale applications, accommodating growing user bases and increased demands.

### API functionality and examples


**SOAP APIs:** These are like messengers that use a special language (HTTP) to talk to web services. They can chat with web services written in different programming languages. In cybersecurity, we need to ensure these messengers don't share sensitive information with the wrong people.

**REST APIs:** Think of these as request forms you fill out on a website. You can ask for information (GET), add new stuff (POST), update what's there (PUT), or even delete things (DELETE). They're used to talk to databases, file systems, and more. Securing them is essential to prevent unauthorized access to data and actions.

**JSON APIs:** These are like messages between computers. They use a simple text format that's easy for machines to understand. They are commonly used to send data between a server and a web application. Protecting them means ensuring that the messages aren't tampered with or read by the wrong people.

**HTTP API:** This is like sending letters using the postal service but over the internet. It's a common way for web applications to talk to each other. Security here is about making sure the letters (data) aren't intercepted or altered by cybercriminals.

**GraphQL:** Imagine this as a smart assistant who understands your exact needs. With GraphQL, you can ask for specific information, and it will give you just that. It's great for reducing unnecessary data transfer. However, we need to make sure it doesn't give out too much information or get tricked into doing something it shouldn't.

In the world of cybersecurity, it's important to protect these communication methods to ensure that your data stays safe and confidential while using the internet.
