+++
title = 'Hacking API techniques'
date = 2023-10-30T14:51:44+11:00
draft = false
+++

## Common API Hacking Techniques

### **API Reconnaissance:** 
Hackers initiate reconnaissance activities with the goal of discovering and thoroughly analyzing a target system's exposed APIs. This phase entails a comprehensive exploration of the target's documentation, scrutiny of network traffic, or examination of application binaries to discern critical information, including API endpoints, parameters, and authentication mechanisms.

### **API Enumeration:** 
During API enumeration, hackers engage in systematic probing of the target system's APIs. Their objective is to accumulate data pertaining to available endpoints, supported methods, and data structures. This meticulous process allows hackers to gain a deeper understanding of the API's functionality and facilitates the identification of potential entry points for subsequent exploitation.

### **Parameter Manipulation:** 
API endpoints frequently rely on user-supplied parameters for data retrieval or modification. In the pursuit of unauthorized access, hackers employ parameter manipulation techniques. By manipulating these parameters, malicious actors attempt to perform actions that are not sanctioned, access restricted data, or execute code with nefarious intent.

### **Authentication and Authorization Bypass:** 
Weak or improperly configured authentication mechanisms offer an entry point for hackers. In their pursuit of unauthorized access to a target system, malicious actors explore opportunities to bypass authentication controls or exploit vulnerabilities that grant access to sensitive functionalities without the requisite authorization.

### **Injection Attacks:** 
Much like web applications, APIs are susceptible to injection attacks, which encompass threats like SQL injection or command injection. In an attempt to compromise the integrity of the target system, hackers endeavor to insert malevolent code into API parameters. This nefarious code injection is intended to manipulate the underlying systems, enabling the extraction or unauthorized modification of data.

### **Rate Limiting and Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attacks:** 
APIs often employ rate-limiting mechanisms to prevent abuse and protect against Denial-of-Service (DoS) attacks. Hackers may launch concerted efforts to overwhelm the target API, flooding it with an excessive volume of requests. These disruptive actions can lead to service disruptions and render the API unresponsive, potentially causing severe operational disruptions.

## ***Why Hack APIs?***
API hacking is a type of security testing that seeks to exploit weaknesses in an API. By targeting an API endpoint, you as an attacker can potentially gain access to sensitive data, interrupt services or even take over entire systems.

It’s said that more than 80% of all web traffic is now driven through API requests.

Web API security testing can be lucrative, especially if you are into bug bounties. Many bug bounty programs have a well-defined scope of their web application programming interfaces that you can take advantage of to penetration test APIs.

A good security researcher can additionally offer penetration testing services around common API vulnerabilities to help their customers test web APIs. Be it an internal API or a public one, breaking web application programming through brute forcing allows you to perform common attacks in a methodical and consistent manner.

Before we can do all that though, we need to level set on some key fundamentals around how the web works so we start hacking APIs.

Malicious individuals may hack APIs for various reasons,such as to obtain sensitive data, disrupt services, spread malware and/or financial gain.


### Mitigating API Hacking Risks

To fortify defenses against API hacking, developers and organizations should embrace robust security measures:

**Secure API Design:**
Establish a resilient API design by incorporating potent authentication and authorization protocols. Enforce secure communication channels, such as HTTPS, and adhere to the principle of granting the least amount of privilege, thereby restricting access to sensitive functions.

**Input Validation and Sanitization:** 
Employ stringent input validation and sanitization methodologies to preclude injection attacks. Scrutinize and cleanse user-provided parameters prior to processing, eliminating the threat of code execution or data manipulation.

**Rate Limiting and Throttling:** 
Deploy rate limiting mechanisms to regulate the number of requests within a defined timeframe, offering protection against misuse and Denial-of-Service (DoS) assaults. Set judicious thresholds based on expected usage patterns and vigilantly monitor for unusual activity.

**API Monitoring and Logging:** Institute comprehensive monitoring and logging solutions to identify dubious activities, abnormal patterns, and potential breaches. Routinely scrutinize and analyze logs to expedite the detection and response to security incidents.

**Security Testing:** Execute exhaustive security assessments, including penetration tests and vulnerability analyses, to pinpoint and rectify vulnerabilities within APIs. Regularly update and patch API implementations to mitigate newly unearthed security flaws.

## A real life case!
This is very much a real issue! You might have heard of the [Optus data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_Optus_data_breach#:~:text=In%20September%202022%2C%20Optus%2C%20Australia,a%20third%20of%20Australia's%20population.) last year. Well this was caused by an exposed API! (Yes this is why we keep getting those strange scam messages and calls ever since). So what even happened? In September 2022, Optus experienced a significant data breach due to three major security flaws in their system. The breach was caused by an unprotected, publicly exposed API that didn't require user authentication, making it accessible to anyone who found it on the internet. 

The first flaw was having a public-facing API that granted access to sensitive customer data, including driver's license numbers, phone numbers, dates of birth, and home addresses. Such APIs should not be public-facing as they can lead to data breaches. 

The second flaw was the lack of unique customer identifiers; all customer identifiers differed by an increment of 1, making it easy for hackers to access and exfiltrate data. This allowed the hacker to automate the data breach process, resulting in the second-largest data breach in Australian history, compromising 9.8 million Optus customers.

These three vulnerabilities remained active for approximately three months, putting all Optus customers at risk. The breach highlighted the importance of securing APIs and using unique customer identifiers to prevent data breaches.

