+++
title = 'What to look for?'
date = 2023-10-26T14:51:44+11:00
draft = false
+++

To effectively test web APIs, it's essential to grasp their communication methods. The predominant approach for applications to interact is through HTTP requests.

HTTP, a protocol facilitating communication between web clients (like browsers) and servers, underpins this interaction. When you enter a URL into your browser, your computer dispatches an HTTP request to the hosting server of the website. In response, the server provides HTML and other requisite files for rendering the website.

APIs function similarly, but instead of delivering HTML, they exchange structured data using formats like JSON or XML. For instance, REST and GraphQL APIs commonly employ JSON, whereas SOAP APIs typically require XML.

An effective way to identify APIs is by inspecting the request headers, particularly the Content-Type. If it's "application/json" or "application/xml," chances are you've encountered an API endpoint.

With the discussion of request headers, it's pertinent to delve into the components that constitute a request.

An HTTP request comprises three key elements: the Request URL, the Request Method, and the Request Body (if applicable). Let's explore each:

**Request URL:** The Request URL is the location of the resource you wish to access. It comprises two parts: the hostname (the website's domain name, e.g., http://www.amazon.com) and the path (the resource's location on the server, e.g., /products/shoes).

**Request Method:** The Request Method specifies how you intend to access the resource. Common Request Methods include GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE.

**Request Body (if any):** Certain Request Methods, such as POST, necessitate a body to transmit data between the client and server. The body typically contains information about the data type and how it should be processed.

When delving into APIs, you might encounter the term CRUD, which stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete. These fundamental operations underpin many web applications today and closely relate to the Request Methods discussed earlier:

- **Create:** Corresponds to the POST Request Method.
- **Read:** Aligns with the GET Request Method.
- **Update:** Associated with PUT/PATCH Request Methods.
- **Delete:** Matches with the DELETE Request Method.

While REST and CRUD are interconnected and often used interchangeably, they aren't synonymous. CRUD represents a set of functions, whereas REST is a standard that defines API architecture. Recognizing this fundamental distinction is crucial for a comprehensive understanding of both.

Now that you have a grasp of HTTP requests and identifying API requests, let's delve into building an efficient API testing lab to kickstart your API testing endeavors.

